How are blockchain and ML realted?
how blockchain can be used in health care system?
how system works in US for getting burial ground?
linear regression,clustering,classification?
does ios and android also provide api services(oovoo sdk) for developing machine learning algo?
what is nodeJs and why is it used?


if we use sagemaker,we dont need a high speed cpu.cloud services provide well built cpu and memory for bulk processings.

marklogic,mongodb,cassendra-supports nosql

traditional ML algo processing and prediction is pretty time consuming.With Amazon sage maker(that uses jupyter),every thing has become simple.

amazon machine learning algo provides kind of wrapper class on the top of traditional ML algos,hence makes it faster and scalable.

amazon red shift and s3 provides data services.

Amazon SageMaker, hosts Jupyter notebooks for easy data exploring & visualization of training data stored in S3 (Amazon Storage)
Implement's 10 most common algorithms running 10X faster than running anywhere else. Algorithms can make use of TensorFlow, Apache MXNet or Apache Spark.

typescript is object oriented js is not.

we can store pdfs,images,etc in these dbs.These dbs provides APIs which can do image processsing(extracting text from scanned copies of reciepts).
ACID property-consistency

knockoutJS-usually used by microsoft

BlockChain coding is done in JS. It is chain of blocks. Each block consists of data, hash, previous block's hash.It is a distributed ledger.Block Chain uses P2P network.
Class Block{

constructor(index,data,hash,hash){
	this.index = index;
	this.data = data;
	that.hash = hash;
	this.hash = hash;
}
BlockChain()
{

}
}
Changing anything inside the block,changes hash value.This breakes the chain since they are linked via hash. If this happens,then the hash code of all other blocks changes making the chain valid again.

BlockChains are becoming smarter these days.They have brought something called smart contract which are being used for exchanging money.

DEFINITION of 'Distributed Ledgers'

A distributed ledger is a database that is consensually shared and synchronized across network spread across multiple sites, institutions or geographies. It allows transactions to have public "witnesses," thereby making a cyberattack more difficult. The participant at each node of the network can access the recordings shared across that network and can own an identical copy of it. Further, any changes or additions made to the ledger are reflected and copied to all participants in a matter of seconds or minutes. Underlying the distributed ledger technology is the blockchain, which is the technology that underlies bitcoin.
BREAKING DOWN 'Distributed Ledgers'

A distributed ledger can be described as a ledger of any transactions or contracts maintained in decentralized form across different locations and people, eliminating the need of a central authority to keep a check against manipulation. All the information on it is securely and accurately stored using cryptography and can be accessed using keys and cryptographic signatures. Once the information is stored, it becomes an immutable database and is governed by the rules of the network. While centralized ledgers are prone to cyber-attack, distributed ledgers are inherently harder to attack because all the distributed copies need to be attacked simultaneously for an attack to be successful. Further, these records are resistant to malicious changes by a single party.

Read more: Distributed Ledgers Definition | Investopedia https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/distributed-ledgers.asp#ixzz57fgHjz7X
Follow us: Investopedia on Facebook





